[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>What secret obsession
is shared by kings, popes,
and presidents,
Templars, Freemasons,
and founding fathers,
Renaissance masters,
modern architects, and NASA?
What has been coded in art,
architecture, and urban design,
spanning the whole of recorded
history up to the present time?
These are the secrets
in plain sight.
As a teacher of architects,
it was the buildings
in Dan Brown's "The
Da Vinci Code,"
"Angels and Demons," and "The
Lost Symbol" that started me
on a journey of exploration.
What I found encoded
in these structures
was stranger than fiction and
perhaps even more compelling.
Friends kept handing me
interesting nonfiction.
And after a while,
I felt that each
was a clue in some overarching
and interconnected mystery.
I felt I was seeing no more
than the tip of an iceberg.
As I investigated further, I
unwittingly began an initiation
into the ancient mysteries,
as I progressively
uncovered a body of
knowledge cleverly hidden
in plain sight in the design
of important buildings,
famous works of art, in
long-distance alignments
between sacred
sites, in the streets
and public spaces of many
of the world's great cities.
What I have uncovered is a
story about monumental works
specifically designed to
embody a symbolic program
of ancient wisdom.
This wisdom relates
to core truths
about the design or architecture
of the universe, best expressed
by musical principles, sacred
geometry, and number theory.
What I am calling "the
architecture of the universe"
is closely related to
the hermetic philosophies
of Pythagoras and Plato.
All is number, all is mind,
indeed, all is consciousness.
These ideas originated
before the pharaohs,
and the specifics of
this ancient science
have been passed down
through the centuries
by secret groups dedicated
to either preserving
heretical ideas
in dangerous times
or to exploiting the knowledge
itself for the acquisition
of temporal power.
You might be
surprised to learn how
people living at what historians
call the dawn of civilization
possess the ability
to accurately
measure the size of
the Earth and to survey
long distances with a precision
rivaling GPS satellites.
You'll discover how the oldest
surviving temples elegantly
encode an understanding of
earth, moon, and sun that
is in some ways more
advanced than modern science.
We'll travel virtually to Giza,
Stonehenge, Jerusalem, Rome,
Paris, London, Edinburgh, New
York, Washington, DC, Winnipeg,
and San Francisco,
searching for answers.
In these places, I uncover
an interconnected system
of geometry and symbolism, going
back at least to ancient Egypt.
We'll find Pythagorean
triangles, Vesica Piscis,
rhombi, pyramids, octagrams,
enneagrams, and Zodiacs encoded
in much of the world's great
architecture and urban design,
exposing a secret obsession
with ancient symbolism spanning
the centuries on up
to the present day.
Many researchers
past and present
have uncovered important
clues in this mystery.
I've synthesized the work
of many other authors
and been fortunate to make
my own connections via books,
the internet, and
the democratizing
power of free tools
such as Wikipedia,
Google Earth, and SketchUp.
What I'm about to share with
you is an ongoing effort,
and I invite your participation.
I believe the time
is ripe to reveal
what has been hidden
for so many centuries
and bring this body of
knowledge to public attention
for the benefit of all.